+++
title = "Roští.cz"
draft = false
date = "2017-01-28"
tags = ["Roští.cz", "Scaleway", "Caddy", "Hugo", "Dropbear", "Supervisor", "hosting"]
+++

Have you heard about Roští.cz? I don't thing so, but trust me, it's a hosting service, which was intended to be a greatest hosting service in Czechia. From internet perspective, Roští has a long history. It was my personal project from 2010 and he is short story about what Roští.cz actualy is.

Here in Czech Republic, even in 2017 it's not possible to host anything else than PHP code. If you want to write application in Node.js, Python, Java, Go or anything else than PHP, you have to use your own VPS. But using the VPS means a lot of worries. You have to keep the server updated, keep your application updated, make both things compatible, be an database expert and if something goes wrong, you have to know what to do pretty fast.

To be honest, I am no enjoying this anymore. I don't want host my new projects in complicated environment. This blog is statically generated by [Hugo]() and it's servered from simple configured VPS hosted in [Scaleway](https://scaleway.com). I use [Caddy]() as a web server and it take care about Let's encrypt and damn good performence without much trouble.

But back to Roští. As I said it's another hosting company, but it does things differently. It supports Python and PHP from the beginning and it's pretty good in both now. Later I added support for Node.js. A three years later I met Martin, my friend who was also very interested in Python. We founded a company called Roští.cz and we started working on a completely new system for hosting applications.

The system is based on Docker. We use it like light virtual machine. Each application has a environment based on our based images and each image is focused to one technology like Python, PHP, Node.js, Java and Ruby. We call each container as a application. Each application is group of load balancer settings, container and databases. Inside the application you can find SSH daemon [Dropbear](), [Supervisor]() and a few tools every developer needs. Thanks to Docker, we can support multiple versions of all supported technologies and we can scale our infrastructure up and down as we need. After three years of development I can say we are the most advanced hosting company in Czechia.

For me personaly Roští means a lot. I could test there a lot of technologies I use now. I couldn't do it in any other company and for all projects I work on now I can thank to Roští. At the begining it was my sandbox and I learn everything about Linux on servers. Roští wasn't always profitable company, but all expenses returned me in experience and undirect income very quickly. Now it's working company and I am starting to look for a new challenges. I am pretty existed about what this year will bring to me.
